README.md, before:

# CoralBleach
This python script automatically counts pixels of certain colours from all photos in a folder and calculates coral bleaching, paling and mortality.
It is based on my old script [Folderleaf](https://github.com/rootsh0pf/folderleaf) for calculating leaf damage in the same way.
I used it for my research and hope it will be helpful for others too.

## How to use it
 1. Take photos of leaves and place a calibration object of known size in the image (e.g. a black 1 x 1 cm square, see example photos)
 1. Install the python library "opencv"
 2. Paint your leaf photos using EXACTLY the following colours (R, G, B):
 
       Calibration objects:  Magenta (255, 000, 255)
       
       Healthy leaf area:    Blue    (000, 000, 255)
       
       Damaged area:         Red     (255, 000, 000)
       
       (The "fuzzy select"/magic wand tool of GIMP is super helpful for selecting regions of similar colour.)
       
 3. Save images in PNG file format
 4. Download the script "folderleaf.py"
 4. Edit the script's "settings" section and set the size of your calibration object
 5. Run the script in the folder containing the photos
 5. It will create a CSV file with the results called "leaf_damage.csv"

## Credits
Thanks to [LucxMangaJet](https://github.com/LucxMangaJet) for creating the first version!

Commit message:

fully update README for corals instead of leaves

README.md, after:

# CoralBleach
This python script automatically counts pixels of certain colours from all photos in a folder and calculates coral bleaching, paling and mortality.
It is based on my old script [Folderleaf](https://github.com/rootsh0pf/folderleaf) for calculating leaf damage in the same way.
I used it for my research and hope it will be helpful for others too.

## How to use it
 1. Install the python library "opencv"
 2. Take photos of corals
 3. Open photos one by one in GIMP or a similar photo editor
 2. If you use a quadrant, crop photos to quadrant size
 2. Paint your photos using EXACTLY the following colours (R, G, B):
       
       Healthy Coral:   Green    (000, 255, 000)
       
       Paling Coral:    Yellow   (255, 255, 000)
       
       Bleached Coral:  Red      (255, 000, 000)
       
       Dead Coral:      Magenta  (255, 000, 255)
       
       (Hint: The "fuzzy select"/magic wand tool of GIMP is super helpful for selecting regions of similar colour.)
 3. Save images in PNG file format, all in one folder
 4. Download the script "coralbleach.py"
 5. Run the script in the folder containing the photos
 5. It will create a CSV file with the results called "coralbleach_results.csv"
